---
layout: post
title: "2025-26 Ski Jumping Preview Part 2: World Cup Standings"
date: 2025-11-03
author: "Syver Johansen"
---

## World Cup Standings Predictions

### Background

In Part 2, I will be giving the overall standings predictions as a proportion of maximum World Cup points as well as the odds for each skier to get top-1, 3, and 10 in the overall World Cup.

The Elo data is calculated from event data going back to 1924 for men and 2009 for ladies.  Event data includes World Cups, World Championships, Ski Flying World Championships and Olympic Winter Games.  Elo scores are calculated for overall Elo, as further broken down into Normal Hill, Large Hill, and Ski Flying.

In addition to Elo scores, I also considered the percent of maximum points a skier had in the previous season, and their age.  The skiers included in these lists are the ones who competed in the 2024-25 World Cup season and are not listed on the retirement list on the 2024-25 FIS Ski Jumping World Cup Wikipedia page.

One thing that should be considered when viewing this data is that it only considers historical results and how one's current Elo scores and recent competition history predicts their outcome in the following season. It cannot predict illness, injury, fatigue, offseason training, or a number of other factors when determining its results.


### Season Points Predictions


#### Men

##### Jan Hörl (AUT, 27)

Hörl enters comes into 2026 as the runner-up from the 2025 campaign.  In the season he amassed 12 podiums, but only 2 victories from those podiums. At the World Championshps in Trondhem he showed that high level performance consistency by receiving two medals in the indvididual events.  While Hörl fell short to Tschofenig in the Overall last season, he has the higher Elo score of the two largely due to fewer poor performances.  Since 2023 he has steadily improved his position in the standings.  If he converts more podiums into victories, the only place to go is up.

##### Daniel Tschofenig (AUT, 23)

Tschofenig had a true breakout performance in 2025 moving from 11th in 2024 to winning nine events, including the Four Hills Tournament, and 16 podiums en route to his first Crystal Globe.  While Tschofenig struggeled in the latter half of the season, especially at the World Championships, his youth and top level talent makes him a favorite to repeat as champion in 2026.  

##### Stefan Kraft (AUT, 32)

Kraft is the third member of a dominant Austrian trio that swept the Overall podium in 2025.  Once a prodigy like Tschofenig, Kraft now has a strong case for greatest jumper of all time with three Crystal Globes and countless medals at the World Championships.  While Kraft's 2025 season still placed him 3rd overall, it was a major downgrade from one of the greatest seasons of all time in 2024.  Still, Kraft has shown that he can still win competitions, and I would not rule him out of Crystal Globe.

##### Anze Lansisek (SLO, 29)

The first half of Lansisek's 2025 season looked to mirror the major disappointment of his 2024 campaign where he finished 14th following a 3rd place overall in 2023.  However, post Four Hills something clicked for the Slovenian.  Including World Championships, Lansisek never placed outside the top-10 in 14 competitions, won 2 competitions including the final one of the year in his native Planica, was on 6 podiums, and finished a bitter 4th in both individual events at the World Championships.  If Lansisek continues his groove into 2026 he is a threat for the Crystal Globe and some Olympic hardware.


##### Ryoyu Kobayashi (JPN, 29)

Like Lansisek, the first bulk of the 2025 season was abysmal for Kobayashi.  He had zero top-10 finishes through 4 Hills and it seemed to be a washed season for him.  Howeer, from February onward he looked like his old self again by amassing 3 victories and 6 podiums in just 10 events to close out the season.  If Kobayashi is to win his 3rd Crystal Globe he needs to be more consistent, especially in the first half of the season.  Moreover, last Olympic season Kobayashi won the Crystal Globe and had major success at the Games.  We will see if he follows a similar trajectory in 2026.

##### Honorable Mentions

Andreas Wellinger, Gregor Deschwanden, Domen Prevc, Kristoffer Eriksen Sundal, Manuel Fettner


{{< datatable "skijump.season-prediction.2026.Men_WorldCup_Predictions_2026" >}}


#### Ladies

##### Nika Prevc (SLO, 20)

At just 20 years old, Prevc is already a top-5 ladies' ski jumper of all time.  While 2024 was her coming out party, winning the Crystal Globe as an 18 year old, 2025 was her coronation and marked perhaps the best season ever in the sport.  In 24 competitions, Prevc won 15 of them including the last 10 of the season, and podiumed in an additional 4.  That's not even counting winning both individual competitions at the World Championships.  Prevc will have great expectations to repeat that success in an Olympic season in 2026.  While it is highly unlikely that anyone will dethrone her from the top seat in the standings, the sport can be fickle with injuries, inconsistencies, and people finding incredible form out of nowhere.


##### Eirin Maria Kvandal (NOR, 23)

Kvandal had an excellent 2025 campaign that landed her 4th overall despite missing a large chunk of competitions, and made herself a hero among Norwegians with two team gold medals in Trondheim.  What was most impressive about Kvandal's performance was her level of consistency.  She only plavced outside the top-7 once, and placed in the top-4 in 16 of her 19 competitions.  If she competes at a higher clip in 2026 and performs at the same level, she should place in the top-2 in the final standings.

##### Selina Freitag (GER, 24)

Freitag may unfortunately end up as the Elgin Baylor or Andy Murray of this generation of women's ski jumpers in that she is always second fiddle to historic domination in the sport.  To illustrate, Freitag finished a distant second to Prevc in 2025.  However, during the season she had 11 podiums, including 8 second places,  two silver medals in the individual events at the World Championships, and *zero* victories. What is also remarkable is that 9 of her 10 total runner up finishes were to Prevc.  Like Kvandal, her level of consistency was remarkable.  In 2025, she only finished outside the top-10 once.  If Prevc is unable to compete due to illness, injury, or preparation, we know who the likely next woman up is.  

##### Anna Odine Strøm (NOR, 27)

After missing almost the entirety of the 2024 season after a heavy crash in Engelberg, she showed signs of her old form, getting 3 runner ups, a bronze medal in the Normal Hill in Trondheim, and placed a respectable 8th in the Overall.  Given one more year to recover from the crash and shake out the cobwebs, Strøm should have a good chance at being top-5 at the end of the season.

##### Katharina Schmid (GER, 29)

2026 will mark Schmid's 15th season of competing in the World Cup.  During that time she has amassed three runner-ups and a 3rd place last season in the Crystal Globe competition, but zero Overall victories.  2025 started out as a dream season for Schmid, finishing 2-1-1-1-2 in the first five competitions, before falling into a rut and having zero podiums and only two top-5s in the last 19 events of the season.  Hopefully, Schmid can recapture that magic from December and early January and make a push for another Crystal Globe podium.


##### Honorable Mentions

Alexandria Loutitt, Lisa Eder, Ema Klinec, Thea Minyan Bjørseth, Eva Pinkelnig



{{< datatable "skijump.season-prediction.2026.Ladies_WorldCup_Predictions_2026" >}}

## World Cup Odds Predictions


#### Men
 
As expected, Lamparter and Geiger are the two to watch with Oftebro and Schmid not far behind.

##### Win

{{< datatable "skijump.season-prediction.2026.Men_Win_Odds_2026" >}}

##### Top-3

{{< datatable "skijump.season-prediction.2026.Men_Top3_Odds_2026" >}}


###### Top-10

{{< datatable "skijump.season-prediction.2026.Men_Top10_Odds_2026" >}}


#### Ladies

Armbruster, Hagen, and the Kasai twins have the odds in their favors for 2025. 

##### Win

{{< datatable "skijump.season-prediction.2026.Ladies_Win_Odds_2026" >}}

##### Top-3

{{< datatable "skijump.season-prediction.2026.Ladies_Top3_Odds_2026" >}}

###### Top-10

{{< datatable "skijump.season-prediction.2026.Ladies_Top10_Odds_2026" >}}