---
layout: post
title: "2025-26 Nordic-Combined Preview Part 2: World Cup Standings"
date: 2025-10-31
author: "Syver Johansen"
---

## World Cup Standings Predictions

### Background

In Part 2, I will be giving the overall standings predictions as a proportion of maximum World Cup points as well as the odds for each skier to get top-1, 3, and 10 in the overall World Cup.

The Elo data is calculated from race data going back to 1924 for men and 2021 for ladies. Race data includes World Cups, World Championships, and Olympic Winter Games. Elo scores are calculated for overall Elo, as further broken down into Individual, Individual Compact, and Mass Start.

In addition to Elo scores, I also considered the percent of maximum points a skier had in the previous season, their age, and World Cup racing experience. The skiers included in these lists are the ones who competed in the 2024-25 World Cup season and are not listed on the retirement list on the 2024-25 FIS Nordic Combined World Cup Wikipedia page.

One thing that should be considered when viewing this data is that it only considers historical results and how one's current Elo scores and recent race history predict their outcome in the following season. It cannot predict illness, injury, fatigue, off-season training, or a number of other factors when determining its results.


### Season Points Predictions


#### Men

##### Johannes Lamparter (AUT, 24)

With Riiber retiring as the greatest Nordic Combined skier of all time, it is Lamparter who will likely carry the torch to the next generation. While only being 24 years old, Lamparter already has one Crystal Globe, two individual World Championship golds, and one bronze. Lamparter has failed to reach the same level of success in the last two seasons as he did in 2023 when he won the Overall, but still enters the season with the highest Elo, back-to-back third places, and the youngest age among contenders. Look for this to be a career year for Lamparter as he becomes the new face of Nordic Combined.

##### Vinzenz Geiger (GER, 28)

Always the groomsman, never the groom, Geiger finally won his first-ever Crystal Globe in 2025 after three previous podiums. Outside of the regular season, he also got his first-ever individual podiums at the World Championships with two bronzes. 2025 was a major comeback with eight wins for the German after a terrible 2024 season where he seldom finished in the top 10 and received zero podiums for the first time since his rookie season as an 18-year-old in 2016. Hopefully Geiger's form continues into the season as he looks to defend both his Crystal Globe and his Olympic gold. 

##### Julian Schmid (GER, 26)

Like Geiger, Schmid had an abysmal 2024 season, never placing on the podium and finishing outside the top 10 in the overall before bouncing back to form in 2025 by placing fourth in the Overall—his best finish since 2023. While Schmid finished 2025 with nine podiums, zero of those were victories. If he is to contend for the Crystal Globe, he will need to win some races, an easier task with Riiber out of the picture.  

##### Jens Lurås Oftebro (NOR, 25)

While not a bad skier during the regular season (second place in 2023), Oftebro shines most during the major championships. In his career he has amassed three individual silvers and one bronze across four championships. With 2026 being an Olympic season, expect Oftebro to rise to the occasion there. In terms of the World Cup season, however, Oftebro has lacked consistency in his jumping, which has led to too many results outside the top 10 to compete for the Overall. Unless he has fixed his jumping issues, expect Oftebro to finish the season in the fourth to seventh range again.  

##### Ilkka Herola (FIN, 30)

In his 14th season on the World Cup, Herola had by far the best year of his career. During the season, Herola placed on four podiums including one victory, the first of his career, leading to a fifth in the Overall. Often one of the best skiers on the circuit, it was his jumping that improved the most, going from 19th to 10th. Since the retirement of Hannu Manninen, Finland has been desperate for top-end Nordic Combined talent. Perhaps Herola can scratch that itch for the next couple of years.

##### Honorable Mentions

Stefan Rettenegger, Johannes Rydzek, Kristjan Ilves, Franz-Josef Rehrl


{{< datatable "nordic-combined.season-prediction.2026.Men_WorldCup_Predictions_2026" >}}


#### Ladies

##### Nathalie Armbruster (GER, 19)

In 2025, Armbruster became the young face of a young sport. Her Crystal Globe victory over Ida Marie Hagen came with three victories and eight podiums including a dominant victory at the Nordic Combined Triple. With Gyda Westvold Hansen gone from the sport, Armbruster will be up against Ida Marie Hagen and Haruka Kasai to defend her title. With another year of experience and more maturity on skis, Armbruster is the favorite to win the Overall.  


##### Ida Marie Hagen (NOR, 25)

While she was not able to defend her Crystal Globe, Hagen was the best athlete in 2025. She led the circuit with eight victories and 11 podiums and would have likely finished first had she finished the Nordic Combined Triple in Seefeld. However, being six years older than Armbruster, Hagen will need to improve her jumping and maintain superiority in skiing over Armbruster, who is six years her junior, if she wishes to win her second title.

##### Haruka Kasai (JPN, 21)

Kasai finished the 2025 season in third, just one place but 170 points ahead of her twin sister Yuna. During the season she had eight podiums, yet zero wins. An incredible jumper, Haruka's skiing ability took a large leap in 2025 and will need to do so again if she is to win the Overall over the superior skiers Armbruster and Hagen. However, Haruka has improved consistently year over year to this point, so it is not out of the question for her to do so.


##### Yuna Kasai (JPN, 21)

The other Kasai twin only had one podium in 2025; however, she made sure it was a victory. While originally the better twin, Yuna has been surpassed by her sister in the past two seasons with the gap mostly coming in the ski section. However, Yuna has shone brighter at her best, not only winning the 5km Mass Start in Otepää, but also earning a gold medal on the normal hill at the World Championships. If Yuna could channel that excellence throughout the season, she may land herself on the podium in the Overall.


##### Honorable Mentions

Jenny Nowak, Lisa Hirner, Ema Volavsek, Marte Leinan Lund, Lena Brocard



{{< datatable "nordic-combined.season-prediction.2026.Ladies_WorldCup_Predictions_2026" >}}

## World Cup Odds Predictions


#### Men
 
As expected, Lamparter and Geiger are the two to watch with Oftebro and Schmid not far behind.

##### Win

{{< datatable "nordic-combined.season-prediction.2026.Men_Win_Odds_2026" >}}

##### Top-3

{{< datatable "nordic-combined.season-prediction.2026.Men_Top3_Odds_2026" >}}


###### Top-10

{{< datatable "nordic-combined.season-prediction.2026.Men_Top10_Odds_2026" >}}


#### Ladies

Armbruster, Hagen, and the Kasai twins have the odds in their favor for 2026. 

##### Win

{{< datatable "nordic-combined.season-prediction.2026.Ladies_Win_Odds_2026" >}}

##### Top-3

{{< datatable "nordic-combined.season-prediction.2026.Ladies_Top3_Odds_2026" >}}

###### Top-10

{{< datatable "nordic-combined.season-prediction.2026.Ladies_Top10_Odds_2026" >}}