---
layout: post
title: "2025-26 Nordic Combined Preview Part 3: Breakthrough"
date: 2025-11-06
author: "Syver Johansen"
---

## Breakthrough Potential

In Part 3, I will be going over the skiers most likely to breakthrough this year.

By breakthrough I mean people who score more than 50% of the maximum possible World Cup points in a given season. Since 2016 (2021 for ladies), this has only been done by around 13 men and 13 women. For this analysis, I looked at the characteristics (age, experience, Elos, etc.) of all skiers who broke that 50% barrier for the first time in their career, and then created a model to apply to the current skiers who have not accomplished the feat. Here are some of the top contenders.


### Men

#### Thomas Rettenegger (AUT, 25) ####

Thomas Rettenegger, older brother to Stefan, seemed poised for a breakout 2025 season after a 2024 campaign that was filled with 12 top-10 finishes.  Unfortunately, it was a step back for the Austrian, finishing the season with 5 top-10s before an early exit in February due to injury.  A bounceback from Rettenegger would be massive for an Austrian team that has a good chance at winning its relay at a major championships since 2011.  However, without any podiums to his name, it will difficult to reach that 50% marker.


#### Wendelin Thannheimer (GER, 26) ####

Thannheimer had the best season of his career in 2025.  Prior to last season, he had zero top-10 finishes in six seasons.  In 2025, that number became 5 including a career high 4th place in Otepää.  Another year or two of similar progress will have Thannheimer easily passed the 50% mark and have him comfortably on the German realy team.


#### David Mach (GER, 25) ####

In 2024, it appeared that Mach was going to be the next big thing in German Nordic Combined.  Only 23 at the time, he finished the season with season with 4 top-10s and a podium in Otepää.  Now entering his 6th season, Mach needs to show more of that form if he wants to keep getting starts for a deep German squad.  Given how he had improved year over year until 2025, I would bet in favor of Mach making that jump.


#### Honorable Mentions ####

Terence Weber, Martin Fritz

{{< datatable "nordic-combined.season-prediction.2026.mens_breakthrough_comparison_historical_vs_2026" >}}


### Ladies

#### Minja Korhonen (FIN, 18) ####

Only 18 years old, Korhonen has been knocking on the door of a breakthrough for the past two seasons.  During that time she has placed almost exclusively in the top-10 and has podiumed two times.  With more race experience under her belt, the young talent has the best chance of any to make a name for her self this season.


#### Ingrid Låte (NOR, 18)

Another 18 year old, Låte only had four starts last season and in them she placed 9-9-4-4.  I won't pretend to follow Norwegian 18 year olds lives close enough to know if she will have a more extensive racing schedule this season, but if she does, it is fair to say she has a great chance of finishing near the upper end of the standings.



#### Léna Brocard (FRA, 25)

Brocard has been on the circuit since the inaugural season in 2021 and has produced her best results in the past two seasons.  In 2025, Brocard had 10 top-10s, a career high and a best finish of 5th.  Brocard is hampered by not having a large contingent of French women in the sport, but more and more experience has meant progress for her.  If she continues that improvement into 2026, she may reach that 50% marker. 

#### Tia Malovrh (SLO, 17)

Like Låte, Malovrh raced only four times in 2025, but performed solidly in the ones she did.  Being only 16 at the start of last season, any experience at all would have been seen as a win, but by finishing exclusively in the top-20, Malovrh will have a lot to work off when if she competes again in 2026.


#### Honorable Mentions ####

Maria Gerboth, Alexa Brabec, Yuzuki Kainuma, Cindy Haasch

{{< datatable "nordic-combined.season-prediction.2026.ladies_breakthrough_comparison_historical_vs_2026" >}}


