---
layout: post
title: "2025-26 Alpine Preview Part 2: World Cup Standings"
date: 2025-10-17
author: "Syver Johansen"
---

## World Cup Standings Predictions

### Background

In Part 2, I will be giving the overall standings predictions as a proportion of maximum World Cup points as well as the odds for each skier to get top-1, 3, and 10 in the Overall World Cup.

The Elo data is calculated from race data going back to 1931. Race data includes World Cups, World Championships, and Olympic Winter Games as well as some races prior to the World Cup era that began in 1966-67. Elo scores are calculated for overall Elo, as further broken down into Downhill, Super-G, Giant Slalom, Slalom, Speed, and Technical.

In addition to Elo scores, I also considered the percent of maximum points a skier had in the previous season, their age, and World Cup racing experience. The skiers included in these lists are the ones who competed in the 2024-25 World Cup season and are not listed on the retirement list on the 2024-25 FIS Alpine World Cup Wikipedia page.

One thing that should be considered when viewing this data is that it only considers historical results and how one's current Elo scores and recent race history predict their outcome in the following season. It cannot predict illness, injury, fatigue, off-season training, or a number of other factors when determining its results.

### Season Points Predictions

#### Men

##### Marco Odermatt (SUI, 28)

Unsurprisingly, Marco Odermatt is the favorite to win the overall title in 2025-26. After four straight years of dominance as an all-around skier, he faces little competition for the Overall World Cup. 2025 was perhaps his best season to date, finishing over 600 World Cup points in front of second place, and being the best skier in three disciplines. If he fails to win this season it will be more likely due to absence from illness or injury than anyone in the field closing the gap skill-wise.

##### Loic Meillard (SUI, 28)

If Odermatt does not show up for the 2026 season, Switzerland has another capable skier in the wings. Loic Meillard has been at the top of the sport for five seasons now and has finished second and third Overall in the most recent two seasons. Originally a technical specialist, Meillard has added the Super-G to his repertoire in recent seasons. It is not clear if he will focus more on his technical specialties in preparation for the Olympics this season, or continue to develop his Super-G. If it is the latter, there is a good chance that Switzerland is one-two on the podium at the end of the season.

##### Henrik Kristofferson (NOR, 31)

Kristoffersen has been nothing but consistent since he was a 19-year-old in 2014. Over that time he has finished second in the Overall three times, third five times, and top eight all 12 seasons. In an injury-riddled sport, the ability to stay at the top for as long as Kristoffersen is incredible. During that run, Kristoffersen has established himself as the King of Slalom by finishing first four times (including in 2025), and second three times. However, he has never ventured outside of the technical events, making it unlikely he will ever win the Overall Crystal Globe.  

##### Lucas Pinheiro Braathen (BRA, 25)

Braathen returned in 2025 from a brief retirement wearing a different country's uniform and little rust on his skis. While he did not achieve the same heights as he did in 2023 where he won the Slalom, his five podiums and sixth Overall in the World Cup made for his second-most productive season to date. Expect Braathen to be better this year given another year of racing and for him to win either the Slalom or Giant Slalom Crystal Globes.  

#####  Honorable Mentions: 

Atle Lie McGrath, Franjo Von Allmen, Timon Haugan

{{< datatable "alpine.season-prediction.2026.Men_WorldCup_Predictions_2026" >}}

#### Ladies

##### Mikaela Shiffrin (USA, 30)

On paper, Shiffrin would be the favorite to win a sixth Crystal Globe in 2026, but in reality she has stated that she will be more selective with her racing this season given her injury history and preparation for the Olympics. Shiffrin is the greatest women's alpine skier of all time, but has been hampered by injuries for the last two seasons. Given that it's an Olympics year and how much she will want to avenge her results from Beijing, expect Shiffrin to be on top form in February and March, but not present enough before that to compete for an Overall.

##### Federica Brignone (ITA, 35)

Brignone's career has aged impeccably well, winning her second Overall World Cup at the age of 34. Not only was she the winner in 2025, but she was dominant, winning both the Downhill and Giant Slalom and finishing second in the Super-G for the discipline competitions. With the Olympics in her home nation and zero prior Olympic golds, and being in the advanced stage of her career, Brignone will likely feel extra pressure to perform in Milan-Cortina. Don't be surprised if she also misses World Cup races in preparation for the games, but if she doesn't then Brignone has a good chance of winning her third Crystal Globe.

##### Sofia Goggia (ITA, 32)

Goggia, usually known for her speed, has started to bring back her Giant Slalom prowess in recent seasons. While not enough yet to get podiums, it shows her potential to win an overall World Cup. Like Brignone, it is a home Olympics for Goggia and it is unclear if she will return for another round in 2030. Expect her to focus more on her Downhill and Super-G specialties instead of chasing World Cup points.

##### Lara Gut-Behrami (SUI, 34)

Gut-Behrami is the second-best skier of her generation. Two Overall World Cups, three second places, and five Super-G titles are a resume that would make her competitive for best in any era that does not include Mikaela Shiffrin. In recent seasons, she has filled right in for Shiffrin's absence by finishing second three times, and winning the Overall in 2024. Given her breadth of skill from Giant Slalom to Downhill, Gut-Behrami is as likely as anyone to win the Overall in 2026.

##### Sara Hector (SWE, 33)

While she has been a regular on the circuit since she was 17 years old in 2010, Hector's career did not reach the upper echelons of the sport until 2022. Since then she has been incredibly consistent in the technical events and good for five or more podiums per season, mostly in Giant Slalom. Given that she only races Slalom and Giant Slalom, it is unlikely she can compete for a Crystal Globe, but it does not rule her out for a podium, especially as many of the top women cannibalize each other for points in the speed events. Hector's first top-10 season came last Olympic cycle. Perhaps she can get her first podium this time around.

##### Alice Robinson (NZL, 23)

The most surprising thing about Alice Robinson is that she is only 23 years old. A fixture on the World Cup circuit since 2020, she had a great couple of seasons as a teenager before having a slump in 2022 and 2023, before evolving into one of the best Giant Slalom skiers in the world. Furthermore, she has continued to develop her Super-G and Downhill skills, putting her in good position to compete for a Crystal Globe one day. While it will likely not come this year, with the top end of the sport reaching the twilight of their careers, Robinson will be a force to be reckoned with for the next decade.

##### Honorable Mentions: 

Zrinka Ljutic, Camille Rast, Wendy Holdener, Lena Dürr, Paula Moltzan, Katharina Liensberger, Lara Colturi, Marta Bassino


{{< datatable "alpine.season-prediction.2026.Ladies_WorldCup_Predictions_2026" >}}

## World Cup Odds Predictions

#### Men

Odermatt is an untouchable favorite to win the overall. The reason why the Win, Top-3, and Top-10 are all similar in odds is due to normalization to ensure percentages remain under 100% and that the numbers add up to 100% (in the case of top-10, 1000%). Also there is some effect of heteroscedasticity here that causes outlier skiers like Odermatt to be undervalued at the top-10 level.

##### Win

{{< datatable "alpine.season-prediction.2026.Men_Win_Odds_2026" >}}

##### Top-3

{{< datatable "alpine.season-prediction.2026.Men_Top3_Odds_2026" >}}

##### Top-10

{{< datatable "alpine.season-prediction.2026.Men_Top10_Odds_2026" >}}

#### Ladies

Gut-Behrami is the favorite to win the overall in the odds prediction, followed by Brignone and Shiffrin. This may be a sample size error of finding winners (only using back to 2016), or it may be the case that the winner does usually fit Gut-Behrami's current skillset.

##### Win

{{< datatable "alpine.season-prediction.2026.Ladies_Win_Odds_2026" >}}

##### Top-3

{{< datatable "alpine.season-prediction.2026.Ladies_Top3_Odds_2026" >}}

###### Top-10

{{< datatable "alpine.season-prediction.2026.Ladies_Top10_Odds_2026" >}}