---
layout: post
title: "2025-26 Biathlon Preview Part 2: World Cup Standings"
date: 2025-10-23
author: "Syver Johansen"
---

## World Cup Standings Predictions

### Background

In Part 2, I will be giving the overall standings predictions as a proportion of maximum World Cup points as well as the odds for each skier to get top-1, 3, and 10 in the overall World Cup.

The Elo data is calculated from race data going back to 1958 for men and 1983 for ladies.  Race data includes World Cups, World Championships, and Olympic Winter Games. Elo scores are calculated for overall Elo, as further broken down into their specific disciplines: Sprint, Pursuit, Individual, and Mass Start.

In addition to Elo scores, I also considered the percent of maximum points a skier had in the previous season, their age, and World Cup racing experience.  The skiers included in these lists are the ones who competed in the 2024-25 World Cup season and are not listed on the retirement list on the 2024-25 FIS Biathlon World Cup Wikipedia page.

One thing that should be considered when viewing this data is that it only considers historical results and how one's current Elo scores and recent race history predict their outcome in the following season. It cannot predict illness, injury, fatigue, off-season training, or a number of other factors when determining results.



### Season Points Predictions


#### Men

##### Sturla Holm Laegreid (NOR, 28)

No Bø brothers means new opportunities for many biathletes. While Johannes did not finish the 2025 season on top, he was still seen as the dominant figure in the sport after winning the most races (four) and tying for most podiums (12), while earning two individual gold medals and one individual bronze at the World Championships in Lenzerheide. He would remain the favorite if he were to race again in 2026. Following his somewhat shocking retirement, Sturla Holm Lægreid, 28, is the on-paper favorite to defend his Overall title. Often sitting in the shadow of Bø, the 2025 season finally saw him take the Crystal Globe. Lægreid has always excelled in consistent top results (three wins and 12 podiums last season) and does not take time off racing like Bø would. In terms of Elo, Lægreid is consistent across disciplines. To finish 2025 he was first Overall, and second in each race type, with three of the four being behind Johannes Thingnes Bø.

On Lægreid's heels are familiar faces, both young and old, who will see this season as their opportunity for glory.

##### Eric Perrot (FRA, 24) 

It seems like France has found another star. Perrot's progression in the overall World Cup since 2022 has been 68th to 34th to 11th to third. In his 2025 breakthrough season he finished the season with two wins, a victory in the Individual at Worlds and a bronze in the Pursuit. However, he only had four podiums in total during the World Cup season. If he wants to beat Lægreid he needs to be on the podium more consistently, something that should be easier with no more Bødiums possible.  

Another thing Perrot needs to improve is his Sprint and Pursuit combination. While he excels in the longer distances, his Elo ratings at season's end in sprints and pursuits were only seventh and ninth, respectively. 

##### Tomasso Giacomel (ITA, 25) 

Like Perrot, after years of promise Giacomel's career took off in 2025, finishing the season with one victory, four podiums, and a silver behind Perrot in the Individual at Worlds before finishing sixth in the Overall standings. With the Olympics at home in Antholz, it is unclear how much specific periodization will go into the season for a peak while leaving World Cup points on the table early. However, he will be a year more mature and anxious to reach the next level of the sport.  

Giacomel's bread and butter is the sprint and pursuit combo, but he has proven he can podium in all disciplines. If he is more consistent, he might not be able to challenge Lægreid, but he could end up on the final podium.


##### Quentin Fillon Maillet (FRA, 33) 

Fillon Maillet, or QFM, is the only person besides Lægreid with an Overall Crystal Globe, having won in 2022. Since then his career has had more downs than ups, finishing eighth and 16th in the World Cup in 2023 and 2024 before getting fifth last season. At 33 years old it is unclear if QFM can regain his Olympic season magic from four years ago, but 2025 was a confidence booster with one victory, three podiums, and two bronze medals at Worlds.

QFM finished 2025 with the fourth-highest Elo and has shown consistency across disciplines with the highest aptitude in the Individual and the Mass Start. 

##### Sebastian Samuelsson (SWE, 28)

At his best, Samuelsson could rival Johannes Thingnes Bø on the race course. However, most of the time we do not see him at his best with historically higher variance in his results than most biathletes. He will need to become more consistent if he ever intends to challenge for a Crystal Globe; however, it is almost certain he will schedule his training to peak for the Olympics. Samuelsson deserves a write-up given his seventh Overall Elo rating (fifth active) and former Overall podiums.  

Samuelsson performs best in sprint and pursuit races (fourth in each for Elo), but especially struggles in the longer distances (23rd for Individual).

##### Honorable Mentions

Endre Strømsheim, Jakov Fak, Vetle Sjåstad Christiansen, Johannes Dale, Martin Ponsiluoma


{{< datatable "biathlon.season-prediction.2026.Men_WorldCup_Predictions_2026" >}}


#### Ladies

##### Lou Jeanmonnot (FRA, 26)

Lou Jeanmonnot came up a heartbreaking 20 points short to Franziska Preuss for the Crystal Globe in 2025, but her top-end ability, youth, and improvement make her the favorite to win the Overall. In 2025, Jeanmonnot won a season-high eight races, had 10 podiums, and finished with the highest Elo by 26 points. She also was Queen of the Pursuits, winning four of the six possible races. If she is less hit-and-miss in her races, it's hard to believe someone can beat her this season.  


##### Franziska Preuss (GER, 31)

It is nice to see a skier like Preuss, who has been a regular top-20 skier on the circuit since 2014, go out and win the whole thing. Her 2025 season saw improvement across the board and bumped her from someone with consistent top-10s but not often on the podium to having four victories, a season-high 13 podiums, and a gold and silver medal at Worlds. If repeated, that level of consistency will be a standard that will be tough for anyone to beat.  

Not only does Preuss rarely have a bad race, she is also consistent across disciplines. Her Overall Elo is second in the world, and she is fourth, fourth, second, and first across sprint, pursuit, Individual, and Mass Starts, respectively.  


##### Julia Simon (FRA, 29)

Simon, the winner of the 2023 Overall, has finished fifth (albeit less than 100 points from first) and a distant third since. Her 2025 season was still decent with two victories, six podiums, and a gold medal at Worlds, but it is not close to good enough to compete with Preuss or Jeanmonnot should they be on similar form. If Simon wants another Crystal Globe she needs to be even better than she was in 2023 and find more victories. Her Elo scores are still near the top in all disciplines, suggesting high consistency and few poor results; however, Elo scores and World Cup points are not one-to-one, so she will need to go up a level if she wants to compete.

##### Elvira Öberg (SWE, 26)

Elvira has been frustratingly close to becoming the it-girl in biathlon since 2021. At her best, she might be the best female skier ever and has a great rifle. At her worst, she's several seconds back and fully lactic before the halfway point of the race. Her best-ever finish in the Overall was second in 2022, but since has finished fifth, seventh, and fourth. Specifically, the 2025 campaign saw her gain two wins, seven podiums, and a gold and silver at Worlds. Like Samuelsson for men, Elvira seems to time her seasons for the championships, so I would be surprised for her to make an Overall campaign. However, if she intended to do so, she has the top-end ability to make it a contest.

##### Justine Braisaz-Bouchet (FRA, 29)

Braisaz-Bouchet, one of the four women who competed for the Crystal Globe on the final day of the 2024 season, struggled with her consistency in 2025, finishing the season eighth Overall with just one victory and two podiums despite a phenomenal World Championships where she won gold in the sprint and bronze in the pursuit. Surprisingly, Braisaz-Bouchet may have to fight for a spot on the French relay team at the Olympics, which means she will need as many World Cup points as possible in December and January. Expect her to be a dark horse for the Overall this season.

##### Honorable Mentions

Suvi Minkkinen, Oceane Michelon, Jeanne Richard


{{< datatable "biathlon.season-prediction.2026.Ladies_WorldCup_Predictions_2026" >}}

## World Cup Odds Predictions


#### Men

Lægreid is the clear odds favorite to win in 2026.  


##### Win

{{< datatable "biathlon.season-prediction.2026.Men_Win_Odds_2026" >}}

##### Top-3

{{< datatable "biathlon.season-prediction.2026.Men_Top3_Odds_2026" >}}


###### Top-10

{{< datatable "biathlon.season-prediction.2026.Men_Top10_Odds_2026" >}}


#### Ladies

Jeanmonnot is the odds favorite for ladies.

##### Win

{{< datatable "biathlon.season-prediction.2026.Ladies_Win_Odds_2026" >}}

##### Top-3

{{< datatable "biathlon.season-prediction.2026.Ladies_Top3_Odds_2026" >}}

###### Top-10

{{< datatable "biathlon.season-prediction.2026.Ladies_Top10_Odds_2026" >}}